Detective Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a sensual drama
film called, "Fifty Shades of Grey”.
Rich with depravity and sadomasochism, this
movie adds a twist to the usual love story.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
21-year-old Anastasia "Ana" Steele is an English
literature major at Washington State University's
satellite campus.
Meek and mild-mannered, she contrasts the
direct and driven Christian Grey, who is the
27-year old billionaire entrepreneur she's
set to interview.
The man sits atop his towering skyscraper,
ready for his ten-minute interview with Miss
Kavanaugh.
But Kate Kavanaugh, Ana's roommate, has fallen
sick, leaving Ana to interview him in her
stead.
Kate teases Ana about her wholesome outfit,
and in turn, she kisses Kate's forehead before
taking her leave.
At the lobby of Mr. Grey's office, Ana is
greeted by a plethora of beautiful blonde
women wearing sleek and fitted attires.
Already, she's feeling out of place with her
more homely-looking ensemble.
It’s quickly made clear that Ana’s not
like other girls, she’s badly dressed.
But on a more serious note, Ana sticks out
like a sore thumb because she contrasts the
professional and self-assured women there
with her more fidgety and awkward demeanor.
One of the women directs Ana to Christian's
room.
As the door opens, Ana abruptly trips, interrupting
Christian's contemplation by the window.
When Christian approaches her, Ana is immediately
dazed by his overwhelming yet eloquent aura.
Throughout the interview, Christian intently
stares at Ana, making her feel uncomfortable.
She monotonously reads out the questions that
Kate had prepared, which are unoriginal, to
say the least.
But after Christian’s answers, Ana always
has her own little quip for them, showing
that she has a heaping spoonful of bluntness
to go with her awkwardness.
For instance, she asks Christian to what he
owes his success, and when Christian answers
that he's good at people, Ana retorts that
maybe he's just lucky.
And when Christian emphasizes that he has
a way with knowing what makes people tick
and harnessing talented people's efforts,
Ana correctly and openly surmises that he's
a control freak.
Instead of being offended, Christian seems
amused by Ana.
Given his status, it’s likely that there’s
not much people who have the candor to speak
against him.
Besides, Christian seems to wear his control
freak title with a badge of pride.
Almost forebodingly, he tells her that he
exercises control in all things.
After Ana asks if he feels passionate about
the charity projects he does, Christian dismisses
the projects as a smart business move.
Unable to hide her disapproval, Ana doubles
down on her question and proposes that Christian
cares more than he lets on.
He replies that some people say he has no
heart and they say that because they know
him well.
For the next couple of questions, Ana stumbles
over her words and even mentions that Christian’s
adopted, which she quickly apologizes for.
This prompts Christian to ask if she has an
actual question for him.
Then, Ana clumsily blurts out, "Are you gay,"
making the both of them chuckle awkwardly.
Ana apologizes for the question, explaining
that Kate wrote it, but Christian does reply
that he's not gay.
At this point, Christian sits down, instructing
Ana to forget Kate's questions and ask him
something that she wants to know instead.
Ana then alludes to an earlier statement that
Christian made, that there are people who
know him well.
Ana says that she has a feeling that that
isn't true.
This strikes a chord with Christian, who’s
growing more and more fascinated by Ana's
unexpected defiance and her astute mind.
One of Christian's secretaries comes through
the door to inform him that his next meeting's
coming up.
However, Christian abruptly cancels this to
spend more time with Ana.
With Christian saying that he wants to know
more about her, their roles switch, and Christian's
now the one asking questions.
After asking her about literature, her education
and her plans after college, he offers her
a place in their local internship program.
Ana is flustered by this, and she says that
she doesn't think she'd fit in.
When Christian asked her about literature,
it wasn’t just him flexing how cultured
and well-read he is.
He may have made a connection between Ana’s
interest in literature and the way she tried
to see if there’s anything behind his enigmatic
and loveless façade.
It’s either Ana’s an optimist who sees
the good in people or literature has taught
her that there’s always something more behind
that rich and smouldering jerk you’re talking
to.
When the interview concludes, Ana steps out
of the building, unbothered by the rain.
Finally, she feels that she can truly breathe
after their intense meeting.
The following day, Ana goes to work in her
job at Clayton's, a hardware store.
Ana receives a call from her mother, who informs
her that she won't be able to come to her
graduation, much to Ana's disappointment.
Suddenly, her boss calls her to help in another
aisle.
Ana follows him and is surprised to see Christian
Grey right then and there in her hardware
store.
After getting over her initial shock, Ana
assists Christian with purchasing a couple
of peculiar items, including some cable wire,
tape, and rope.
At the checkout counter, Ana mentions that
Kate had a hard time clearing a photo of him.
To this, Christian offers to have a photo
shoot, and he invites her and Kate.
The photoshoot is held at the Heathman Hotel,
where Christian is currently staying at.
There, Ana's photographer friend, Jose, holds
the photoshoot.
Right after, Christian invites Ana for coffee.
Christian asks if Jose's her boyfriend, noting
how he would look at Ana.
Then, he confirms if she's together with her
boss at Clayton's, and Ana chuckles before
saying that she isn't.
As they go for coffee, the pair starts talking
some more.
It almost feels like a repeat of their first
encounter.
Ana remains as blunt and awkward as before,
while Christian behaves like he has control
over the conversation.
Still, Ana never fails to point out that he’s
high-handed, and he’d refute her by saying
he’s used to getting his way.
Christian then tells her to tell him about
her family, so Ana does.
She talks about how her stepfather raised
her and how her mother is on husband number
four as she's an incurable romantic.
When Christian asks if she's romantic, too,
Ana offhandedly says that she has to be since
she’s a literature major.
In the middle of her talking, Christian cuts
her off, saying he can't do this before offering
to walk her out.
As they walk outside, Ana asks if he has a
girlfriend, and Christian responds that he
doesn't do the girlfriend thing.
Suddenly, a biker almost hits Ana, so Christian
pulls her out of the way.
She closes her eyes when he touches her face,
but Christian softly tells her that he's not
the man for her and that he has to let her
go.
With a look of hurt, Ana bids him goodbye
and walks away.
Later that evening, Ana receives a package
from Christian.
Kate reads the note aloud, which contains
a quote about how women know of the dangers
of relationships because they read novels
telling of them, and Ana identifies it as
a quote from Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
When she opens the package, she finds first
edition copies of two Thomas Hardy novels,
including Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Though she's stunned by the books, she resolves
to return them, saying that they're too much.
Frustrated with Christian's come-and-go behavior,
she drinks.
True to her name, Ana has a steely personality
herself when provoked.
She’s not interested in tolerating a wishy-washy
man like Christian, especially after he got
her hopes up then dipped when he realized
that she’s a nerd.
Kidding aside, it’s clear that the two are
at odds with each other.
Ana’s a believer of romance, and she’s
looking for something serious while Christian
is daunted even by the prospect.
At a bar, Ana and her friends have their graduation
celebration.
She drinks a lot more than usual then goes
to line up for the women's bathroom.
There, she spontaneously gives Christian a
drunken call, sarcastically thanking him for
the expensive books before informing him that
she's returning them.
Noticing her strange speech, Christian asks
if she's been drinking, and when she confirms
this, he orders her to go home.
After calling him bossy, Ana starts doing
impressions of Christian ordering her around
and flip-flopping between wanting her to come
closer and demanding her to go away.
Despite Christian's adamance to know where
she is, Ana refuses to tell him then hangs
up on her phone.
After a few seconds, Christian calls her,
telling her not to go anywhere.
It’s a wonder how on Earth Christian managed
to figure out which bar Ana’s in.
Does he have IT guys on his beck and call
ready to track her down?
Is he just Creep Extraordinaire?
We may never know.
Later, Ana steps out of the bar to get some
air.
Ana is shivering from the cold night when
Jose follows her outside and puts a denim
jacket over her.
Suddenly, Jose confesses that he's always
had feelings for her.
He asks for a kiss, but Ana refuses.
Insistent, Jose holds her tight to try and
get a kiss from her, but Christian steps in
just in time to push Jose away.
Ana abruptly vomits on the ground, and while
Christian's tending to her, Jose disappointedly
walks away.
Christian tells her that he'll take her back
to his place, but Ana's worried about leaving
Kate alone.
To assure her, Christian says that he brought
his brother, Elliot, along to tell Kate he's
taking Ana with her.
On the dance floor, Kate and Elliot are already
dancing and having a good time together.
Ana suddenly passes out, and Christian takes
her to his hotel room.
When Ana wakes up, she's wearing a different
set of clothes.
On the bedside table, there are two blue pills
with a note "Eat me" written next to them
and a glass of orange juice, which also has
a note that says, "Drink me".
As always, Christian has a high-handed approach
with people, and it even shows in the way
he wrote his memos.
Ana complies with the notes, and Christian
walks in from his morning jog.
Ana is surprised when she finds out that Christian
had undressed her and changed her clothes,
and even more so when he reveals that he slept
beside her.
But Christian assures her that they didn't
hook up since he's not into sleeping with
corpses.
After handing Ana a piece of bread, Christian
takes his shirt off in front of her.
As he gets on top of the bed with her, he
comments about how if she were his, she wouldn't
be able to sit down for a week.
The two are locked in an intense moment, and
Christian starts clarifying his intentions.
He doesn't get involved in romantic relationships
since his interests are very singular.
Now, it’s becoming more and more apparent
that Christian’s preference lies in something
more sensual.
But if he’s just in it for the hook-ups,
then it should be easy for him to just say
it outright.
Later, the two of them prepare to go outside
with plans to meet again that evening.
Christian flirts around with Ana, telling
her how he wants to bite her lip.
However, he says he won't be doing that without
Ana's written consent.
This takes Ana aback, but Christian saves
the explanation for later.
They enter the hotel elevator, and as soon
as the doors close, Christian can no longer
restrain himself, and he starts kissing Ana.
But their little session is interrupted when
the elevator doors open once again to let
in several businessmen.
Christian and Ana arrive at her apartment.
There, a naked Elliot and a barely clothed
Kate are hooking up on the couch.
With an audience there, Elliot puts his pants
back on before telling Kate, 'Laters, baby'.
Christian finds this funny, so he decides
to mimic his brother.
Looking at Ana, he repeats 'Laters, baby'
in the same tone.
Once the Greys are gone, Kate starts interrogating
Ana.
But Ana only reports that Christian had just
kissed her once and nothing more, and she
comments on how odd everything is with him.
It’s hard to blame Ana for being confused.
After all, it’s not every day that someone
tells you that they need your written consent
to bite your lip.
Consent is fine, but written?
That feels like overkill.
Then again, everything about Christian feels
like overkill.
During her shift at Clayton's, Ana can't stop
thinking about what happened earlier, and
she can barely contain her excitement for
her upcoming night with Christian.
Finally, evening comes, and Christian's driver,
Taylor, goes to pick her up.
Taylor takes Ana to the very top of a building
where Christian is waiting with a helicopter
next to him.
As Christian buckles Ana onto the helicopter
seat, Ana's heart starts to race when he moves
his hand near her stomach.
Adding to Ana's surprise, Christian tells
her that he will be the one to maneuver the
helicopter.
The two of them head out, and they hover through
the night and over New York City.
The two of them eventually make their way
to Christian's place.
There, he makes Ana sign a non-disclosure
agreement, keeping her from telling anyone
about their relationship.
Afterwards, he takes her to a door down the
hall.
He calls the room his playroom, and Ana wonders
if he's talking about his Xbox.
Cautious, Christian emphasizes that Ana can
leave anytime she wants, not wanting to make
her do anything against her will.
Catching wind of his odd cautiousness, Ana
demands him to open the door.
Finally, Christian takes his well-kept key
and opens the door, revealing a striking room
with red, velvet walls.
In the room are several kinds of toys and
equipment ranging from whips, cuffs, collars,
and more.
Ana is stunned into silence, still processing
the wave of emotions flooding her, while Christian
worries that he might have upset her.
It was certainly a jarring thing.
Ana seems like the kind of woman with modest
sensibilities, so this is a lot for her to
take in.
Not to mention the room is just flat-out tacky,
so maybe she finds it too gaudy for words.
He begs Ana to say something, and finally,
Ana asks if women do those things to him or
if it's the other way around.
After answering that he does it on willing
women, he explains that he's a dominant, and
he wants Ana to be his submissive.
He wants her to surrender herself willingly
and completely to him.
Despite his explanation, Ana's still having
a hard time following, and she asks what she'll
get out of being a sub.
To this, Christian confidently replies that
she'll have him.
He adds that Ana would have to stay in a room
of her own wherever he is for three days a
week, and the two of them won't be sleeping
in the same bed.
When Ana asks what would happen if she declines
these conditions, Christian says he'll understand
completely, especially since he believes himself
to be incapable of forming romantic relationships.
After all that, Christian starts discussing
the contract.
There will be a contract specifying everything
Ana would and would not be willing to do.
This is when Ana admits that she's never slept
with anyone before, much to Christian's surprise.
Hearing this, Christian decides to be her
first, and with that, they hook up.
Early in the morning, Ana wakes up without
Christian in bed, just as he promised.
Unaccepting of this, Ana looks for Christian,
and she finds him playing the piano in the
living room.
Ana coaxes him by approaching him naked, and
they hook up again.
After that, Ana succeeds in having Christian
fall asleep next to her.
Finally, after many days of going back and
forth, the two get a part of what they want
from each other.
Christian got to be Ana’s first, and he
got to sleep with the woman who intrigued
him so.
As for Ana, she plucked out a semblance of
romance from Christian.
Later, Ana makes breakfast for Christian while
wearing nothing but her top.
She dances to some music while cooking, unaware
that Christian is watching her with great
amusement.
Later that day, Christian's mother makes an
unannounced visit, interrupting yet another
session between Christian and Ana.
After greeting his mother, he introduces Ana
to her.
Christian's mother is pleased by this as Ana's
the first girl that he's introduced to her.
She then leaves after their brief encounter.
When Christian and Ana get the chance to talk
again, Ana asks how many women have stayed
in Christian's apartment, and he says 15.
Ana's taken aback, but she explains that she
doesn't want out, she's just not keen on being
whipped in Christian's red room of pain.
She starts asking if they can go to movies
and dinners, but they're not Christian's thing.
Still, he cups her face, promising her that
if she agrees to be his submissive, he'll
be devoted to her.
But the more Christian makes it clear that
their arrangement is unconventional and unromantic,
the more Ana gets put off.
She quips about wanting to hold on to her
free will before asking Christian if she can
go home.
Despite her undeniable attraction towards
Christian, Ana still has her sights set on
what she wants.
She’s not difficult to please, she just
wants to have a normal relationship with the
man she likes.
Ironically, Christian’s offering her something
that runs a little deeper than romance, which
is devotion.
But ultimately, they’re still at odds with
each other.
Before heading to Ana's apartment, Christian
brings her to a lake, where he tries to convince
her to agree to be his submissive.
Christian starts telling Ana about how one
of his mother's friends made him her submissive
for six years ever since he was fifteen.
This is a troubling bit of information.
Christian was clearly underaged when he’s
thrusted into the world of sadomasochism.
Still, he plays this off as if there’s no
problem with it.
After their detour, Christian drops Ana by
her apartment, where he hands her the contract.
For the next couple of weeks, Ana has been
reading through the contract and researching
submission, dominance, and sadomasochism.
The contract contains a tedious number of
rules to keep both parties in an agreeable
position so neither can be harmed.
Meanwhile, Christian has been continually
showering Ana with excessive and lavish gifts
in order to get her to say yes.
Eventually, Ana plays a joke on Christian,
telling him that she doesn't want to go through
with it.
This offends Christian, so he decides to barge
into Ana's apartment.
In an attempt to convince her, he hooks up
with her again.
But this time, Christian adds some ice to
their foreplay.
Though Ana's enjoying herself, she's still
unable to come to a decision.
Eventually, Ana arrives at an alternative
solution that does away with the contract:
she'll be the one to negotiate the terms.
Ana suggests this to Christian, and he welcomes
it.
However, instead of having an informal dinner,
Ana insists on discussing the terms over a
formal business meeting.
For this, Ana turns up in Christian's office
in a sleek and enticing maroon dress.
During their negotiation, they clear off most
of the more extreme practices involved, and
Christian even offers to take Ana out on a
date once a week.
She'll get to decide where to go and what
to do during their dates, pleasing Ana greatly.
With that, Christian tries to convince Ana
to stay so they can hook up again.
However, Ana just pretends to seduce him,
trying to frustrate Christian.
And just as Christian is ready to pounce on
her, she leaves.
With Ana exploring more with Christian, she’s
growing more and more confident in her skin.
She can take a bit of charge now with their
intimate affairs, and she even has Christian
blueballed.
As for Christian, he’s slowly learning to
compromise.
The time for Ana and Kate's graduation comes,
and Christian Grey is the guest speaker at
the ceremony.
After receiving her diploma on stage, Ana
shakes Christian's hands as the others do.
Once again, he tries to persuade her to go
through with the contract, and Ana gives him
an ‘okay’.
She then chuckles and steps down the stage.
Later at Ana's apartment, Christian warns
Ana that the next time she rolls her eyes
at him, he'll spank her.
Christian then motions Ana toward the door
to reveal a brand-new car that he bought as
a graduation gift for her.
Ana is absolutely flustered with the expensive
gift, and without noticing it, she rolls her
eyes.
Because of this, Christian leads Ana back
into the living room, and he slaps her backside
a couple of times.
But right after this, Christian has to leave
for his office, so he goes, leaving Ana confused
and disappointed.
Ana then receives a call from her mother,
asking about her new boyfriend, and Ana sadly
admits that it's complicated.
Aside from being unromantic, Christian is
also a very busy person.
Though their unlabelled relationship has its
share of thrills and glamor, they’re still,
at their core, very different people with
very different priorities and interests.
The following day, Christian finally takes
Ana into the Red Room.
Christian orders her to put her hands above
her head, and when he does, he starts undressing
her.
Then, he ties her hair in a braid before telling
her to kneel in front of the doorway every
time he comes in.
He retrieves a pair of leather cuffs and a
riding crop, and with the crop, he lightly
spanks Ana several times.
This dispels Ana's fear about the practice
as she realizes that there won't be any real
harm.
Christian then sets up a contraption so that
Ana's hands would be tied to the ceiling.
With Ana completely vulnerable, the two engage
in intense and vigorous lovemaking.
After they've had their fill of each other,
Christian carries a tired Ana to her room,
and he kisses her before he leaves.
Now that she's alone again, she starts realizing
just what she had agreed to, and she suddenly
feels how lonesome it is to lie in bed without
Christian.
The next evening, the Grey family is set to
have their dinner.
Elliot invites Kate, and Christian invites
Ana.
During the dinner, Christian continually touches
Ana's thighs and crotch underneath the table,
unbeknownst to all the other guests and family
members.
Through a conversation between Ana and Christian's
mom, Christian finds out that Ana will be
leaving for Georgia to visit her mother.
With how Ana purposely kept this from Christian,
it’s almost as if she’s spiting him.
She could be showing him that he doesn’t
have full access to her, especially with the
current state of their relationship.
Frustrated, Christian excuses himself and
Ana.
Once alone, he carries her over his shoulder
and spanks Ana again while expressing how
annoyed he is.
Setting her down, Christian kisses her and
tells her that she’s his, but Ana eventually
pulls away from him.
She expresses her desire to have a normal
romantic relationship with him, her desire
to touch him and know him since he’s still
so closed off.
Ana tries asking him about the scars on his
chest, but Christian just says he had a rough
start in life.
Later, Ana is asleep when Christian sits on
the bed.
Solemn, he talks to the sleeping woman about
his birth mother, who was a crack addict and
an escort.
Though she's been dead for most of his life,
he says that he can still remember terrible
things.
Now, it’s evident that Christian’s had
a very troubled life.
All the tragedies in his life forged an impenetrable
guard around Christian, and it’s one that
Ana wants nothing more than to chip at.
Eventually, Ana arrives in Georgia to be with
her lovely mother and stepfather.
One afternoon, Christian shows up out of nowhere
there in Georgia, surprising Ana.
He takes her to fly in a small plane, and
they enjoy their impromptu time together.
Ana tries to convince him to be more romantic,
but he suddenly receives a call from work.
With that, the man leaves in a hurry.
After returning home, Ana continues seeing
Christian, and she keeps consenting to the
intimate acts between them.
However, she's also continually frustrated
by Christian's emotional coldness.
In an attempt to understand him better, she
tries asking why he wants to hurt her and
punish her.
Christian refuses to answer at first, but
eventually, he erupts, snapping that this
is the way that he is and that he's fifty
shades of messed up.
In the heat of the moment, Ana tells him to
show her what he wants to do to her, to punish
her and show her the worst, so she can finally
understand him.
Christian takes Ana to the playroom, and there,
he whips Ana's buttocks six times, making
Ana cry.
Upset and disgusted, Ana realizes that Christian
is the wrong man for her.
Because of this, she breaks up with him.
Ana walks to the elevator, and when Christian
tries following her, she firmly tells him
to stop.
And with tears in Ana’s eyes, the elevator
door closes.
While Fifty Shades of Grey is known for the
whips, cuffs, spanking, and everything in
between, its core story is about two people
who can’t be together.
Christian knew from the start that he can’t
be the man that Ana needs.
If he just listened to his instincts, then
he would have spared them both the heart ache.
But at the same time, their time together
were some of the moments they had.
Still, even if what you want is each other,
it’s hard to make things work if you’re
looking for different things.